Direct-Elect
============

This repository comprises the incremental design documents and demo code for the Direct Elect web-based voting system.  The seed value of this project is a collaborative effort between Brannt Stannert, R.J. Davis, Kevin Burdick, and Stephen Slaughter.

This product is motivated by the concept of direct democracy, a system of government used in advanced democratic nations like Switzerland.  In direct democracy, citizens' vote directly on policy issues that effect them (referendums), in addition to electing representatives to vote on policies in their stead.  This system of direct democracy has a clear advantage over purely representative democracies by harnessing the the collective intelligence of all citizens concerned with government.  You can think of a direct democracy like crowd sourcing government administration.  In terms of voting methods, direct democracies like Switerland rely not only on physical polling places, but mail-in ballots and also electronic means such as web-based polls and other machines. Current experts in the field of electronic voting, including some leading computer scientists, have reason to believe that purely electronic voting systems have insurmountable security risks, such as the inability to conduct a recount without compromising voter anonymity. The hope of this project, aside from fulfilling an academic requirement, is that a clever solutions to concerns like these and improvements to Direct-Elect can be found in a crowd-sourced development environment like github.   
